# User Guide

A basic guide for developing Ryuuri can be found directly in the [README](../README.md).

## Launching the application

1. Make sure that the dependencies are met.
   - Java 11+ for running
   - and Gradle 6.8.1+ for development
2. Download the latest .jar snapshot from [the releases](https://github.com/Luukuton/Ryuuri-tiralab2021/releases).
3. Run the application
   - by (double) clicking the .jar (for larger dungeons, use the command below)
   - by running this command in the terminal inside the directory: `java -jar .\Ryuuri-X.Y-SNAPSHOT-all.jar -Xss64M` (on Linux `chmod +x Ryuuri-X.Y-SNAPSHOT-all.jar` might be necessary for execution permissions)

## Using the application

Inside the application all the different parameters can be hovered for more information.

- Dungeon **Width** (integer, 1 - 10000 px)
- Dungeon **Height** (integer, 1 - 10000 px)
- **Probability** for the cell (pixel) to live a cycle (integer, 0 - 100%)
- **Simulation steps** or **cycles** (integer, 0 - 10000) for the generation
- **Seed** for the Random Number Generator (long, can be locked)
  - When set to 0 or unlocked, the seed will be random
- Algorithm version (1 or 2)

The dungeon can be generated by clicking the Generate button. 
It can be then saved as a .png image, or the raw data can be copied to clipboard. It's also possible to copy the seed or any other value.

## Suggestions for the parameters

Probability set to around 40 - 45% with logic version 2 generates good traversable dungeons consistently. 
Some anomalies can be found especially when the probability is set higher.

In most cases below 20 steps should be fine. Going over 100 steps seems to be a huge overkill and will kill the performance with large dungeons.

